[sound of a motor starting]
[sound of motor turning]
[sound of bit scraping plastic]
[live music playing; crowd sounds]
(Narrator) Point one, the prosumer
is personal.
I'm drifting back to 1974,
to my dad's sabbatical,
when we put sediment traps in lakes
up and down the west coast.
[lathing sounds; crowd sounds]
My dad invented a sediment trap
with a device for marking time.
The intervalometer would periodically
drop a layer of Teflon powder
in the collection tube.
We would place the traps in lakes,
then return years later to retrieve them
to study the sediment.
[live music plays; crowd sounds]
The prosumer is about boundaries,
or, really about how boundaries
can be metaphors for emergence.
[live music; scraping sounds]
As Heidegger reminds us, "a boundary
is not [that at which] something stops...
a boundary is that from which something
begins its essential unfolding."
[live music plays softly]
Point two: The prosumer shapes materials.
Three years later, one high-school summer,
I built intervalometers,
working the lathe, engaging the motor,
easing the bits into plastic.
[scraping sounds; live music plays softly]
I remember the steady circling,
the making-by-taking-away.
I bought my first antique bike
with the lathe money, a ‘50s cruiser.
It probably weighed sixty pounds.
It folded in half on a hill
a few years later.
I should have known better.
I was taught to love machines, to care for
them, to find an engine leak by the smell—
the antifreeze sweet or the
almost toasty edge of burning oil.
[live music plays]
I was taught to feel them
[sound of bird chirping] to listen.
[live music plays softly; bird chirping;
indistinct conversation]
(Soft voice in background) I don't think
I've ever had closure with Pine Point.
I always, I always feel sad when I. . . .
(Narrator) That bike crank
was wrong for a long time.
It needed lubricating, rebuilding.
It needed attention.
[music playing]
The prosumer is concrete.
It cracks like metal under stress.
It shapes something out of nothing
and makes interventions through time,
collecting what is offered
by the winds and the tides.
[music plays]
I'm talking about a making, wrought
through layers
from binary-switching to coded
collections of objects
to moving images like these,
making statements that sound much
like heart valve closing and opening
or painting on cave wall or words
scratched on tablet with graphite
wrapped in wood dipped in finish
and pressed with its value—2B.
[live music plays; sounds of scraping;
a 2-stroke engine soft in the distance]
We pencil in our timelines, tracing,
tracking, making the report,
the resume, profile essay
[sound of a 2-stroke engine]
sort out the sequences and
try to bind them together:
"I'm a bio major. I'm business.
I'm poli-sci."
(woman's voice in background) Good
morning, Roy, how are you?
Together, we take up the instrument,
squeeze its laminated length between
fingers and pour language until. . . .
[crowd cheering; live music plays]
The prosumer becomes a metaphor
for all meaning-making
where, as Andrew Pickering reminds us,
"the center of gravity lies
at the intersection of human
and material agency."
(unknown voice) Long time
[music plays; scraping of plastic]
(Narrator) Point three: the prosumer
works in every mode.
The way ideas flow in rivulets
up a windshield in the rain,
droplets lifted back toward
source by motion forward.
The labor of the prosumer is craft and
the logic sparks across darkened splits.
Hydraulic tensioners on a
timing chain dampen sound;
pure metal sings a higher pitch.
[live music plays]
What happens when the screen
becomes the space for composing?
Then word becomes one
among many modes,
then computing becomes performing.
The zoom tool translates layers,
[live music plays, gaining intensity]
the smallest granules become the scale
through which we witness the world.
[rapid guitar notes gaining intensity]
Then, zoomed out, the sediment
is the memory of the earth.
It's best not to be measured by what
we’re called, but by what we do.
[breathing sounds
through SCUBA respirator]
Keith Sawyer says our making must be
not too rigid, but not too loose:
"the critical balance for innovation
is 'at the edge of chaos.’"
[live music plays]
Point four: the prosumer
pulls like memory.
[SCUBA sounds; live music]
The theory is the smell of bread, maybe
ginger-tinged or yeasty at least,
warm from the oven, because making
is also reaching backwards.
We're all intervalometers within streams
of sediment gathered from sounds
like stones or words like iron
gone ferric in rusted bearings.
[live music; SCUBA sounds]
Prosumer time is not just
left to right, but up and down.
[rapid guitar picking]
It’s a blending that ceases to be
sequence and becomes instead space,
playing out like sand
plying and flowing, alluvial,
slow combing, for a moment--forgotten.
[bubbles underwater; live music]
Final point/first point: the prosumer
has nothing to prove.
As Nietzsche tells us, "we believe
that we know
something about things themselves
when we speak of trees, colors, snow;
and yet we possess nothing
but metaphors for things."
[bubbles, SCUBA sounds; music]
When we recognize the makings
of thought in the material world,
linear time begins to loop into
thing and event, noun and verb.
The prosumer no longer
asks us to stake a claim.
[plastic scraping; indistinct voices;
music]
When the blossoms are coming,
we feel their forward turning—
the dogwood bud a capsuled blast of
papered thought waiting to unfold.
[crowd sounds]
We compose because we, too, are
turning: the soil, the eye toward flower,
[indistinct voices]
making arrays in the face of the abyss.
[voices talking]
Let the value of field one be performing.
Let field two be time.
(Unknown voice) Oh they've been here
for a long. . . .
(Narrator) Let the value of our field
be becoming.
[music; plastic scraping]
(Second voice) 'Till the summer
[music fades out; crickets chirping;
plastic scraping]
[crowd cheering]
(Second voice) Are you gonna be one
of the ones that puts the lights out?
(Third voice) Me too
(Fourth voice) So cool.
(Third voice) Talked to Lynn she's gonna
be here too, so there'll be three of us
(Fourth voice) Wow, that was so beautiful.
(Third voice) It's been very nice of
you to give me the time and uh. . . .
(Fourth voice) Oh that's amazing
[sound of water flowing]
Beautiful. So exciting. Thank you
for letting me record it.
[water flowing; plastic scraping]
Um, I like, it really feels so tribal.
Like so, so elemental. So human.
[soft jazz music playing; plastic
scraping]
[plastic scraping]